We have one more kind of TypeScript
thing that we need to jump into a little
bit here.
That will kind of one final pattern before
we jump into some of the context stuff
that we saw earlier.
Now that we know a little bit more about
generics and stuff along those lines.
TypeScript has this feature
called a function overload.
And that's a really cool word.
And what does it mean?
It basically means that JavaScript,
we think a lot about the idea
that functions can take all sorts
of different types of arguments,
they return different things,
a lot of that kind of dynamic typing.
That is kinda built in the language gives
us a bunch of interesting patterns, right.
You can do stuff like partial application,
currying.
You can do things where it's, okay, if I
give you a callback, use the callback.
Otherwise return a promise like these
are things that we've been doing.
Famously, the best example
I can come up with is
a certain function that a lot of times
we abbreviate it to just $1 sign, right.
jQuery was, in a lot of cases, a single
function that did all sorts of stuff.
And TypeScript does still give you
a little bit of an ability to make
that happen using this thing
called function overload.
Which is basically a way to have multiple
type declarations for the same function.
And let's kind of we'll kind
of look at it together.
We can check out one example right here,
where we've got an asynchronous
add function, right.
This could be an API call or
something along those lines.
I kept it small and simple so
that we could talk about it fairly easily.
And if you look kind of right here, we can
kinda see this is the all cases, right.
We have a number a number b, and
maybe we have a callback right,
add a and b, if there was a callback
function call the callback,
if not immediately return results promise,
right.
And so the type of this we can
actually let's take this and
let's pull it into the TypeScript
playground actually.
The type here I'll leave that for
a second cuz you'll need it.
If we just remove these two lines for
a second, Is what we might expect,
which is we've got a,
what's the number, we've got b and
maybe a functional callback, or undefined.
The callback is optional or it could be
undefined and either it'll be void or
a promise.
All right, and that'll technically work
but when you're the function overloads and
say, hey listen this thing has multiple
different kinds of type signatures.
And given the different combinations, this
is what you can expect from this function.
Again adding more clarity about
the intention of your code in this case.
So all we can do is have actually
additional declarations for
how this might work.
And if you hover over we
say a sync add over here.
Okay, the past and one and two,
we can tell that this is the version of
it that takes a number and a b number.
And returns a promise cuz that is one
of the different signatures it has.
The other one cuz it's
add plus one overload is,
the idea that it might take a callback
at which point it returns void, right.
Cuz the base one can return either one,
but we just say, yeah.
I understand it has all these
different ways it can be used but
the two that we support are if you give
me a b, you're getting back a promise.
Or if you give me a being a callback,
you're getting back undefined, right.
So we pass in something just a function
in this case, we'll say takes the result.
Now you can see that it's actually the
version that takes ab in a callback and
returns void.
So it's basically having two different
interfaces for the same function.
Now, I will tell you a secret about
me when I originally saw this,
that's super cool.
And that makes sense.
And then the first time I went to
go implement it a few years ago,
it just didn't work, right.
I couldn't ,as I, what's wrong?
And I what I'll explain to you
real quick Is effectively,
the one thing to keep in mind,
which is a fact these are the these
are the two type interfaces
that you're supporting.
But effectively the actual implementation
has to be ready for any of those.
So a lot of times you might say,
okay, I wanna have,
I want it to work like this and
you can see it already is blowing up and
then have an additional type signature.
The kinda bottom one has to
effectively work in every case.
So you know we have definitely
an a definitely b definitely a callback.
And then we've got definitely a definitely
b definitely return a promise in
this case.
We have definitely a definitely b,
and the optional function,
right, which covers both cases.
And then TypeScript didn't make
you define a return type per say.
But we know that we does that completeness
checking that we're seeing before right,
okay, in the case of function, there's
both branches of whether or not fn exists.
If it does exist, call it if it doesn't
return the promise that basically
covers all of the bases of the two
overloads that we gave it, right.
So you do need to make sure that the
actual implementation appeases all of the,
I was gonna say all the promises
that you made, but it's overusing.
It's overloading the term promise.
But you have to make sure that this
version cuz this is not actually
the type signature.
This is the implementation,
it has to appease every overload
that you give it, right.
And so
it's a way to have multiple interfaces.
And you can think about the fact
that we might have components.
That might have multiple kind
of prop interfaces for them.
And that might be a thing that we
interplant implement right after this.
So we want to kind of just play around
with it just on the TypeScript level
first, cuz also like I
kind of joked before,
never promised too much to chat
rooms yeah, I think that's fair.
As we saw before, effectively react
is a full fledged framework but
it's also it's boiled down to,
it's a bunch of functions that
return react components now so a lot
of this will kind of apply a little bit